<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="becoming_a_member">
    <title>Becoming a member</title>
    <conbody>
        <p>After the end of our visitor program, we had time to reflect on our visit and figure out
            where to go from there. We were not under any pressure to make a decision right then. We
            were given a long period - six months, if I remember correctly - in which we could make
            the decision to apply as residents at DR. <i>Residents are akin to exploring members in
                other intentional communities.</i> Before visitors can become full-fledged Members,
            they must first live in DR as residents. Those who did not apply in the six-month
            timeframe would need to participate in the visitor program again to apply for residency.
            Some people felt strong enough to apply pretty much right then while others were not so
            sure. One lady in the program wanted to move to DR but felt she had to work a little
            more to build up enough savings.</p>
        <p>Not all who applied passed the approval process to become residents. Current members and
            residents of Dancing Rabbit participated in this selection process, which DR people
            emphasized was a relatively low-key process. After at least six months and at most two
            years of living as residents, residents could apply to become members, thus making a
            long-term commitment to live at DR.</p>
        <p>While residents and members shared many similarities, members had more significant
            responsibilities and privileges, most notable of them being required monthly dues, not
            being allowed to own private vehicles, and having the right to build permanent buildings
            on DR land leased for 99 years.</p>
        <p>There was another route to starting the membership process at DR besides coming in as a
            visitor: Coming in as a work exchanger, commonly called wexer. Wexers were hosted by
            individual members at DR. In exchange for shelter - usually be a simple tent site -,
            food, and all basic expenses at DR such as water and power, wexers would work a set
            amount of hours per week for their hosts. Wexers did not receive money in many cases.
            Some of the wexers I talked to felt they were putting in a lot of effort for small
            compensation.</p>
        <p>To summarize the membership process at DR, it would look ilke this:</p>
        <p><ol>
                <li>Visitors or Wexers, which stand for.</li>
                <li>Residents akin to exploring members in other communities. </li>
                <li>Members who are akin to full members in other communities. They have the right
                    to build and own housing on DR land.</li>
            </ol></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
