<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="food">
 <title>Food</title>
 <conbody>
  <p> Contrary to the common stereotype that ecology-focused intentional communities are food
   self-sufficient, all ecovillages I visted were very far from achieving the ideal. DR had several
   kitchen co-ops where people pay a monthly fee to share the cost of eating. Usually, it was around
   $7 per person per day. Food co-ops would mail-order grains, oils, dairy, and meats from organic
   providers in bulk. Most people at DR took care of their food needs primarily through these food
   co-ops. Sunflower was the main co-op at the common house, which was open to everyone while other
   co-ops were exclusive. The other co-ops had their own separate kitchens, and candidates had to
   build a rapport with the existing members to be accepted into the coop. </p>
  <p> DR visitor program participants were assigned to a strict eating schedule where they rotated
   through five different kitchen co-ops. The taste of the food I had at DR was a complete gamble
   depending on who was cooking. Some meals were amazing while some meals had much to be desired.
   Most of the food I got at DR during the visitor program was vegan, which I had no problems with
   as I eat a lot of vegan food at home, but some dishes were simply not very flavorful. Since the
   cooks had to accommodate all diet restrictions of the visitors, the food was often reduced to the
   lowest common denominator: vegetables and beans. We once got to enjoy a meal of raw kale salad
   and unseasoned boiled kidney beans. Since members and residents eat at their own kitchens or
   their own co-ops, their diet would not be so restrictive. To be fair, we enjoyed some awesome
   dishes like vegan curry, baked potatoes with sour cream and bacon, and barbecued meats from a
   massive party. After finishing our food, we composted all leftover food and waste, including meat
   and inedible parts. DR people emphasized being careful with water use while washing dishes. Some
   actually leaked their plate thoroughly after they finished eating so that they would use less
   water when cleaning the dishes. </p>
  <p> Gardening for vegetables was very popular at DR, but very few people grew more calorie-dense
   food sources such as grains, fruits, beans, and nuts. A few members had just started an intensive
   agricultural project involving food forests and livestocks. While the animals were happily
   established on the land, it would probably take at least five years from 2012 for the nut and
   fruit trees to produce food. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
