<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="housing_and_buildings">
 <title> Housing and Buildings </title>
 <conbody>
  <p> DR was located in an area with no strict building code requirements, so people were free to
   experiment with all kinds of materials and techniques. That turned out to be a double-edged sword
   based on what I saw. Many of the older homes were poorly built in terms of waterproofing and
   insulation, so the owners of these homes were working hard to retrofit them. The owners either
   built the homes themselves or bought them from the previous owner, inheriting their problems. I
   heard some horror stories of poor design, but I will leave them out. </p>
  <p> Many houses at DR used 18 inch-wide strawbales as insulation and mud or other natural
   materials for the walls. Thermal curtains placed in windows provided additional insulation
   against the hot summer sun and winter heat loss. Skilled builders would angle the houses' awnings
   to block the summer sunlight when the sun is at its highest while allowing sunlight during the
   colder seasons when the sun is lower. Some houses used vinyl sidings, which seems an odd choice
   for an ecovillage. A member who is a builder explained that the ecological covenant has some
   shortcomings in requiring wood sidings to come from sustainable sources but has no clear
   requirements for other material types. Based on my first-hand experience, the homes had
   impressive insulation performance against the hot Missouri summer weather. When the visitors
   toured some of the homes in 90 F to 100 F weather, the homes stayed comfortable, if not cool,
   without using AC or fans. </p>
  <p> Housing was where the main difference between being a member and a resident came into play. DR
   members had the right to build their own houses or buy existing ones that were available for
   sale. Residents could only rent houses, but could not own or build them. Since housing was in
   short supply at DR, only a few lucky residents managed to rent old buildings from members. Most
   residents ended up renting undeveloped land and living in temporary dwellings like tents or
   yurts. </p>
  <p> Interestingly, members and residents could lease land from DR Land Trust, but they could not
   own any portion of the land. That meant even when members were building their own houses on DR
   land, they were leasing the land, not buying it for permanent ownership. This arrangement had the
   potential to create problems when members decided to depart DR for whatever reason. I did not pry
   too much into this topic during my visit, but in all the cases I had heard of, members who were
   leaving DR managed to sell their houses to other members. From a more cautious perspective,
   members who decide to invest their money into building permanent homes at DR should accept the
   possibility of losing money since the market for the homes are limited to DR residents and
   members. </p>
  <p> Based on my rough estimate, most of the houses I saw at DR were less than 800 sqft, with some
   of them being as small as 200 sqft and a few being over 1000 sqft. Most of them were built with
   either natural materials or salvaged materials. I saw lots of variety - converted school buses,
   grain bins, cob (an ancient building material composed of sand, clay, and straw), straw bale with
   earth plaster, timber frame, and so on. Many members built their homes with their own hands using
   18-inch wide straw bales from local farms to for insulation and load-bearing structure. After the
   straw bales were stacked like bricks to form walls, builders would coat them with plaster or
   earth plaster for water protection. </p>
  <p> Looking at the intriguing homes at DR gave me an idea about schools offering mandatory courses
   on building shelters. Schools nowadays focus too much on teaching abstract knowledge while
   neglecting more practical and physical skills such as auto repair, home building, cooking,
   gardening, financial responsibility, and sewing. I wonder how society would change if education
   shifts more to teach these tangible skills. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
