<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_llv_ppv_phb">
    <title>A Quick Overview of Dancing Rabbit</title>
    <conbody>
        <p>Dancing Rabbit is an ecovillage located on the outskirts of Rutledge, a tiny town in a
            rural part of northeast Missouri. The main town center of Rutledge is about two miles
            away from DR and had 109 people according to the town sign when I visited DR. DR itself
            had about 55 members and residents - these two roles have some distinct differences
            explained in "Becoming a Member" section - and 15 children, so the total added up to 70.
            I also counted about 20 visitors and wexers, or work exchangers. Work exchangers
            provided labor to the host families in exchange for free food and loedging. While the
            population of DR sounded small, it seemed to be one of the largest and oldest surviving
            ecovillages in the United States based on my quick research.</p>
        <p>In 1997, a group of idealistic people, many from the West Coast, founded Dancing Rabbit
            as an ecovillage to explore more sustainable ways of living. They were looking for a
            place with inexpensive real estate and other conditions suitable to starting an
            intentional community, and Rutledge was a good fit. What helped the move was that
            Sandhill Farm, another intentional community, was already established a few miles
            away.</p>
        <p>DR is composed of multiple legal entities, including the educational nonprofit arm and DR
            Land Trust. DR Land Trust owns about 277 acres of real estate with four acres of it more
            heavily developed as the main part of the town. The rest of the land consists of
            undeveloped prairies, forests, a large swimming pond, and 20 acres that got opened up
            for farming in 2012 before my visit.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
