<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="the_visitor_experience">
 <title>
  The Visitor Experience
 </title>
 <conbody>
  <p>
   To be considered for the visitor program, I contacted Dancing Rabbit about six weeks before the first day of my visit and went back and forth, answering emails and filling out a questionnaire. When I was finally accepted, I submitted the fee to finalize my decision. I was living in New Jersey at the same, so while I could have flown in and arranged for a ride to DR, I decided to take the time and drive from New Jersey to Missouri so that I could see other parts of the country. After the visitors including myself parked ours cars in the central parking lot near the edge of the town, we walked on a short gravel path which lead us to the village courtyard where the host, a male DR member in his 20s, greeted us. The courtyard was a small grassy yard with picnic tables. The large common house, the Milkweed Mercantile Eco-Inn, and Skyhouse, a house owned by a sub-group, surrounded the courtyard. After an orientation, the host lead us to a campground with wooden pallets set up as tent platforms. The visitors pitched the tents they brought on the platforms. The Missouri summer heat made staying in the tents rather tortuous even when we pitched our tents in the shade. Our DR host brought us tarps to pitch over the tent for extra protection from the sun, which did help a lot.
  </p>
  <p>
   The first week's schedule was composed mostly of formal workshops and tours. People gave an overview on what it was like to live at DR, finances, people dynamics, etc. We got to learn about permaculture from a member who was an experienced designer. A member gave us a lengthy tour of the outer properties of DR, which was very scenic yet riddled with chiggers and ticks. Much of DR land was wide and flat prairies with tall plants but not too many trees.
  </p>
  <p>
   Touring the wild and undeveloped property made me realize that nature is not made for humans. Air conditioning and clean concrete buildings give us the illusion that natural threats that cause us harm and discomfort no longer exist, but after being in a rural village where the temperature reached over 100 F and the unpaved roads were full of ticks and poisonous plants, I realized that those threats were still very much real. A few days after my visit, while taking a shower at a motel, I felt a bump on my neck. It turned out to be a tick which had become engorged with my blood.
  </p>
  <p>
   During the second week, we had some more workshops, but the focus shifted more onto hands-on work parties where we got to help people with building their natural homes and gardening tasks. Our afternoons and evenings were mostly free, so people got to participate in whatever events were going on. Some typical morning and evening events included yoga, meditation, song circle, and dancing. During one evening, a couple who had filmed their one-year quest to find the ideal intentional community did a free showing of their documentary.
  </p>
  <p>
   One particularly memorable part of the second week was helping a member with his garden after he had given us a tour of his farm. This member was a very skilled farmer and artist who was working on some serious agricultural projects. He had started a vineyard and an orchard with some free-roaming goats on the outskirts of the village while maintaining a sizable garden near his house within the village center.
  </p>
  <p>
   In one work-party experience that initially seemed gross but turned out to be okay, I helped plaster a member's house with earth plaster based on the member's favorite recipe - earth, sand, water, and aged cow poop. I was nervous about odor and pathogens, but the aging process had neutralized both concerns. The whole process turned out to be messy but interesting and odor-free.
  </p>
  <p>
   Visitors got to observe the regular Sunday meetings, called “week in preview”, which frankly were long and boring. People went around in circles, coordinating projects and announcing next week's events. With 50 residents and members, the meeting took more than an hour. I could see the length of the meeting becoming a problem with additional members. After the meeting was over, we participated in cleanup of the common house.
  </p>
  <p>
   During more serious meetings for making community-wide decisions, DR employed a consensus-based system. Consensus as DR interpreted it did not imply full agreement, just consent. DR members emphasized that in a properly functioning consensus system, each participant should dissent at most only two or three times in his or her lifetime. If people were frequently dissenting, it implied that the system was not working properly. As my visit was short, I did not get to observe the consensus system in action.
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>