<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="transportation">
 <title> Transportation </title>
 <conbody>
  <p> My favorite aspect of Dancing Rabbit was its high walkability, made possible by the close
   proximity of buildings, ban on motor vehicles inside the village, and a central parking lot at
   the edge of the town. Since the village roads were designed for people and human-powered
   vehicles, they were only as wide as a single-car lane. Adults and children could safely run
   around the town without worries of getting hit by a car. The high walkability allowed for more
   spontaneous interactions between villagers. Due to the close proximity of buildings to each
   other, going from one place to another often took five minutes or less. On one occasion where a
   truck needed to deliver a large load of straw bales to use as insulation for a house being built,
   the people at DR were flexible enough to allow the truck to come through. </p>
  <p> DR's commitment to reducing dependency on the automobile was not without challenges. While
   residents still exploring membership are allowed to own personal vehicles, once they become full
   members, they must surrender their personal automobiles and only use shared automobiles as a part
   of their ecological covenant. Since DR was located in a very remote part of Missouri, this
   requirement severely limited the members' work options. A resident who worked as a nurse would
   commute for several miles each way to get to her workplace. Other members and residents saw this
   inequality as a source of tension. </p>
  <p> After visiting Dancing Rabbit, other ecovillages I visited later sometimes felt like
   automobile-dependent mainstream suburbs. Earthaven Ecovillage, which I visited in 2015, was the
   opposite of DR when it came to transportation and street planning. Many early members of
   Earthaven opted to build homes far away from each other to enjoy the isolation, some being more
   than a mile away from the common house. One member explained that many members regretted the
   decision due to the distance making it difficult for people to socialize on a regular basis or
   help each other. Earthaven had narrow unpaved roads with no separate sidewalks, meaning
   pedestrians had to be very alert to avoid cars zooming down the road. Serious car-related
   accidents have happened at Earthaven. I honestly felt disappointed by the lack of foresight in an
   aspiring ecovillage that at times felt more dangerous than a car-dependent mainstream city with
   proper sidewalks. I wanted to enjoy walking around the village without worrying about getting hit
   by a car, which was not a concern at Dancing Rabbit. </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
