<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="water_and_sanitation">
 <title>
  Water and Sanitation
 </title>
 <conbody>
  <p>
   Adjusting to the water at DR was a huge challenge for me. The water at times had a funny taste to it, and I suffered extensive stomach problems throughout my entire two-week stay. Based on the taste of the water, I think it was more than my body adjusting to the water.
  </p>
  <p>
   DR only had composting toilets as far as I know. As visitors, we got to use the composting toilets in the common house and outhouses scattered throughout the village. I am a fan of composting toilets, assuming they are implemented well. Compared to septic systems and centralized sewage plants, well-designed composting toilets can be much simpler, safer, and cheaper. The problem with the toilets at the DR common house was that they were not suitable for large-scale use as they had to be emptied often.
  </p>
  <p>
   The toilets were based on Joe Jenkins's system as explained in his book, “The Humanure Manual.” The toilets were regular plastic buckets stored inside wooden boxes with toilet lids on them. Before using it for the first time and after each use, we would add sawdust to mask the odor, absorb moisture, and increase the carbon content. Once the buckets had become full, the content would be dumped at a separate composting site.
  </p>
  <p>
   While the Jenkins toilets were easy to implement and use, they started becoming problematic with heavy use. The smell tended to be strong and with many visitors and wexers using them, they required almost daily emptying. Some wexers opted to empty the toilets into a composting pit at the bottom of a hill in exchange for some money since their work exchange arrangements often did not provide any income. The Jenkins toilets would work well for a small family, but not for a large community of 70+ people. A more effective long-term solution would have been in-situ (in-place) composting toilets with venting pipes. Private homes at DR had in-situ composting toilets with almost no odor. This discrepancy was another possible demonstration of financial challenges and shortcomings of group behavior at DR.
  </p>
 </conbody>
</concept>