<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /C:\Users\nchun\GitHub\visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage\temp\pdf-css-html5?><?workdir-uri file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/temp/pdf-css-html5/?><?path2project?><?path2project-uri ./?><?path2rootmap-uri ./?><?doctype-public -//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN?><?doctype-system concept.dtd?>
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
    xmlns:dita-ot="http://dita-ot.sourceforge.net/ns/201007/dita-ot" id="concept_w1g_qpv_phb"
    ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
    domains="(topic concept) (topic abbrev-d) a(props deliveryTarget) (topic equation-d) (topic hazard-d) (topic hi-d) (topic indexing-d) (topic markup-d) (topic mathml-d) (topic pr-d) (topic relmgmt-d) (topic sw-d) (topic svg-d) (topic ui-d) (topic ut-d) (topic markup-d xml-d)"
    class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
    xtrf="file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/introduction.dita"
    xtrc="concept:1;3:35">
    <title class="- topic/title "
        xtrf="file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/introduction.dita"
        xtrc="title:1;4:12">Introduction</title>
    <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc "
        xtrf="file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/introduction.dita"
        xtrc="shortdesc:1;5:16">Introduction about my reason for visiting Dancing Rabbit</shortdesc>
    <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "
        xtrf="file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/introduction.dita"
        xtrc="conbody:1;6:14">
        <p class="- topic/p "
            xtrf="file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/introduction.dita"
            xtrc="p:1;7:12">Hoping to discover the simple life in a sustainable utopia, I visited a
            few ecovillages over the years, starting with my visit to Dancing Rabbit Ecovillage (DR
            for short) during the summer of 2012. Ecovillages are intentional communities with a
            focus on ecological sustainability. Having been interested in sustainability and
            alternative lifestyles for some time while working in technology companies, I initially
            thought about becoming a farmer and volunteered at a few organic farms until I realized
            how difficult farming is. I shifted my focus to looking for sustainable communities and
            learned about DR on the Internet. DR is an ecovillage in Rutledge, MO that set itself
            apart from the mainstream by locally generating electricity from renewable sources,
            using composting toilets, building houses with natural materials, reducing fossil fuel
            consumption, and focusing on forming a close-knit community. For a period of two weeks
            from June 25th to July 9th of 2012, I lived at DR to participate in its visitor program
            for prospective residents. As a part of the program, we also visited Sandhill Farm, a
            small income-sharing community in the same town for a day. Immediately after my two-week
            visit, I stayed for two days in DR's sister village Red Earth Farms. In September of
            2015, I visited two more ecovillages, spending one week at Earthaven Ecovillage in Black
            Mountain, NC and just one day at Sirius Community. </p>
        <p class="- topic/p "
            xtrf="file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/introduction.dita"
            xtrc="p:2;24:12">While the visit to various ecovillages showed me inspiring ways to
            re-design our neighborhoods and our day-to-day lives, I also realized that the simple
            life is not so simple, and starting newsustainable villages from scratch is an
            impractical solution on a massive scale. Since I stayed at Dancing Rabbit the longest
            out of the four ecovillages I visited, I decided to write an essay about it. Another
            reason for focusing on DR over other ecovillages is that I had the most favorable
            impression of DR out of all the ecovillages I visited. I occasionally talk about in
            other ecovillages in this essay to compare them against Dancing Rabbit.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
