<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /C:\Users\nchun\GitHub\visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage\temp\pdf-css-html5?><?workdir-uri file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/temp/pdf-css-html5/?><?path2project?><?path2project-uri ./?><?path2rootmap-uri ./?><?doctype-public -//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN?><?doctype-system concept.dtd?>
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
    xmlns:dita-ot="http://dita-ot.sourceforge.net/ns/201007/dita-ot" id="concept_llv_ppv_phb"
    ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
    domains="(topic concept) (topic abbrev-d) a(props deliveryTarget) (topic equation-d) (topic hazard-d) (topic hi-d) (topic indexing-d) (topic markup-d) (topic mathml-d) (topic pr-d) (topic relmgmt-d) (topic sw-d) (topic svg-d) (topic ui-d) (topic ut-d) (topic markup-d xml-d)"
    class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
    xtrf="file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/quick_overview.dita"
    xtrc="concept:1;3:35">
    <title class="- topic/title "
        xtrf="file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/quick_overview.dita"
        xtrc="title:1;4:12">A Quick Overview of Dancing Rabbit</title>
    <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "
        xtrf="file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/quick_overview.dita"
        xtrc="conbody:1;5:14">
        <p class="- topic/p "
            xtrf="file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/quick_overview.dita"
            xtrc="p:1;6:12">Dancing Rabbit is an ecovillage located on the outskirts of Rutledge, a
            tiny town in a rural part of northeast Missouri. The main town center of Rutledge is
            about two miles away from DR and had 109 people according to the town sign when I
            visited DR. DR itself had about 55 members and residents - these two roles have some
            distinct differences explained in "Becoming a Member" section - and 15 children, so the
            total added up to 70. I also counted about 20 visitors and wexers, or work exchangers.
            Work exchangers provided labor to the host families in exchange for free food and
            loedging. While the population of DR sounded small, it seemed to be one of the largest
            and oldest surviving ecovillages in the United States based on my quick research.</p>
        <p class="- topic/p "
            xtrf="file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/quick_overview.dita"
            xtrc="p:2;15:12">In 1997, a group of idealistic people, many from the West Coast,
            founded Dancing Rabbit as an ecovillage to explore more sustainable ways of living. They
            were looking for a place with inexpensive real estate and other conditions suitable to
            starting an intentional community, and Rutledge was a good fit. What helped the move was
            that Sandhill Farm, another intentional community, was already established a few miles
            away.</p>
        <p class="- topic/p "
            xtrf="file:/C:/Users/nchun/GitHub/visiting_dancing_rabbit_ecovillage/quick_overview.dita"
            xtrc="p:3;21:12">DR is composed of multiple legal entities, including the educational
            nonprofit arm and DR Land Trust. DR Land Trust owns about 277 acres of real estate with
            four acres of it more heavily developed as the main part of the town. The rest of the
            land consists of undeveloped prairies, forests, a large swimming pond, and 20 acres that
            got opened up for farming in 2012 before my visit.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
